.\" ==================================================================
.\" Jed programmers editor, this manpage was writen by 
.\" "Boris D. Beletsky" <borik@isracom.co.il> copyright(c) 1996
.\" This manpage may be freely distrebuted as part of GNU Debian Linux
.\" ==================================================================
.TH JED 1 "OCT 1996" Debian "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
Jed \- programmers editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jed \-\-version
.br
.B jed\-script \-\-version
.br
.B xjed \-\-version
.sp
.B jed [\-\-secure] [\-\-batch|\-\-script|\-\-help] [options]
.I file
.B ...
.br
.B jed\-script [\-\-secure]
.I script file
.B [script options] ...
.br
.B xjed [\-\-secure] [X options] [\-\-batch|\-\-script|\-\-help] [options]
.I file
.B ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Jed - programmers editor
.LP
Features:
.LP
Color syntax 
.I highlighting. 
Emulation of 
.B Emacs,
.B EDT,
.B Wordstar, 
and Brief editors. 
Extensible in a language resembling C. Completely customizable.
Editing TeX files with AUC-TeX style editing (BiBTeX support too).
Folding support, and much more...
.LP
For complete documentation, see GNU info files, this manual only
provides brief tutorial.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS major options
.LP
.I \-\-version
.RS
prints the version and compiletime variables.
.RE
.I \-\-help
.RS
prints usage information.
.RE
.I \-\-secure
.RS
runs Jed in secure mode, e.g. you can't run any external commands with
.I system()
or
.I run_shell_cmd().
.RE
.I \-\-batch
.RS
run Jed in batch mode.
This is a non-interactive mode.
.RE
.I \-\-script
.RS
this is a mode like
.I \-\-batch
but jed does not eval the startup files. It behaves like
.I slsh.
You must give the file that should be evaluated as second argument. It's
the same as calling
.B jed\-script.
.SS minor options
.LP
.I \-n             
.RS
do not load 
.I .jedrc 
file.
.RE
.I \-a 'file'
.RS
load
.I file
as user configuration file instead of .jedrc.
.RE
.I + 'n'
.RS
goto line
.I n
in buffer (notice that in order to this option to take effect, if must
appear before the file name in the command line, like 'jed +3 file')
.RE
.I \-g 'n'
.RS
goto line 
.I n 
in buffer (notice that in order to this option to take effect, if must
appear after the file name in the command line, like 'jed file \-g 3')
.RE
.I \-l 'file'      
.RS
load 
.I file 
as S\-Lang code.
.RE
.I \-f 'function' 
.RS
execute S\-Lang function named
.I function
.RE
.I \-s 'string'
.RS
search forward for 
.I string
.RE
.I \-2             
.RS
split window
.RE
.I \-i 'file'
.RS
insert 
.I file 
into current buffer.
.RE
.LP
.SS X options
.B xjed
accapts the common options like
.I \-display, \-name, \-fn and \-geometry.
Additionaly it accepts
.LP
.I \-facesize SIZE, \-fs SIZE
.RS
if build with XRENDERFONT support, selects the font size
.I SIZE.
Use it with the option
.I \-fn
to select a scalable font.
.RE
.I \-foreground COLOR, \-fg COLOR
.RS
sets the foreground color.
.RE
.I \-background COLOR, \-bg COLOR
.RS
sets the background color.
.RE
.I \-fgMouse COLOR, \-mfg COLOR
.RS
sets the foreground color of the mouse pointer.
.RE
.I \-bgMouse COLOR, \-mbg COLOR
.RS
sets the background color of the mouse pointer.
.RE
.I \-Iconic, \-ic
.RS
start iconified.
.RE
.I \-title NAME
.RS
sets the window title to
.I NAME.
.RE
.LP
For more options look at
.B xterm.c.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.RS
.I Emulating Other Editors
.RE
.LP
JED's ability to create new functions using the 
.I S\-Lang 
programming language as well as allowing the user to choose key bindings,
makes the emulation of other editors possible. Currently, JED provides
reasonable emulation of the
.I Emacs, EDT, and Wordstar
editors.
.LP
.RS
.I Emacs Emulation
.RE
.LP
.I Emacs Emulation
is provided by the S\-Lang code in
.I emacs.sl.
The
basic functionality of Emacs is emulated; most Emacs users
should have no problem with JED.  To enable Emacs emulation in JED, make sure
that the line:
.LP
.RS
.I () = evalfile ("emacs"); 
.RE
.LP
is in your
.I jed.rc
(.jedrc) startup file.  JED is distributed
with this line already present in the default jed.rc file.
.LP
.RS
.I EDT Emulation
.RE
.LP
For
.I EDT
emulation,
.I edt.sl
must be loaded.  This is accomplished by
ensuring that the line:
.LP
.RS
.I () = evalfile ("edt");
.RE
.LP
is in present in the jed.rc (.jedrc) Startup File.
.LP
.RS
.I Wordstar Emulation
.RE
.LP
wordstar.sl contains the S\-Lang code for JED's Wordstar
emulation. Adding the line
.LP
.RS
.I () = evalfile ("wordstar");
.RE
.LP
to your jed.rc (.jedrc) startup file will enable JED's
Wordstar emulation.
.SH RUN TIME
.LP
.RS
.I Status line and Windows
.RE
.LP
.I JED 
supports multiple windows.  Each window may contain the same
buffer or
different buffers.  A status line is displayed immediately below
each
window.  The status line contains information such as the JED
version
number, the buffer name,
.I mode,
etc.  Please beware of the
following indicators:
.LP
.I **
.RS
buffer has been modified since last save.
.RE
.I %%
.RS
buffer is read only.
.RE
.I m
.RS
Mark set indicator.  This means a region is being defined.
.RE
.I d
.RS
File changed on disk indicator.  This indicates that the
file associated with the buffer is newer than the
buffer itself.
.RE
.I s
.RS
spot pushed indicator.
.RE
.I +
.RS
Undo is enabled for the buffer.
.RE
.I [Narrow]
.RS
Buffer is narrowed to a region of LINES.
.RE
.I [Macro]
.RS
A macro is being defined.
.RE
.LP
.RS
.I Mini-Buffer.
.RE
.LP
The
.I Mini-Buffer
consists of a single line located at the bottom of the
screen. Much of the dialog between the user and JED takes place in this
buffer.  For example, when you search for a string, JED will prompt you
for the string in the Mini-Buffer.
.LP
The
.I Mini-Buffer 
also provides a direct link to the S\-Lang interpreter.
To access the interpreter, press
.I Ctrl-X Esc
and the
.I S\-Lang>
prompt will appear in the Mini-Buffer.  Enter any valid S\-Lang expression for
evaluation by the interpreter.
.LP
It is possible to recall data previously entered into the
.I Mini-Buffer
by using the up and down arrow keys.  This makes it possible to use and edit
previous expressions in a convenient and efficient manner.
.LP
.RS
.I Basic Editing
.RE
.LP
.I Editing with JED
is pretty easy - most keys simply insert themselves.
Movement around the buffer is usually done using the
.I arrow keys or page up and page down keys.
If
.I edt.sl
is loaded, the keypads on
VTxxx
terminals function as well.  Here, only the
highlights are
touched upon
(cut/paste operations are not considered `highlights').
In the following, any character prefixed by the
.I ^
character denotes a
Control character. On keyboards without an explicit Escape key,
.I "Ctrl-["
will most likely generate and Escape character.
.LP
A
.I prefix argument
to a command may be generated by first hitting the
.I Esc
key, then entering the number followed by pressing the desired
key.  Normally, the prefix argument is used simply for
repetition.  For
example,
to move to the right 40 characters, one would press
.I "Esc 4 0"
followed immediately by the right arrow key.
This illustrates the use of the repeat argument for repetition.
However, the
prefix argument may be used in other ways as well.  For example,
to begin
defining a region, one would press the
.I "Ctrl-@"
key.  This sets the mark and begins highlighting.
Pressing the
.I "Ctrl-@"
key with a prefix
argument will abort the act of defining the region and to pop the
mark.

The following list of useful keybindings assumes that
.I emacs.sl
has been loaded.
.LP
.I Ctrl-L
.RS
Redraw screen.
.RE
.I Ctrl-_
.RS
Undo  (Control-underscore, also Ctrl-X u').
.RE
.I Esc q
.RS
Reformat paragraph (wrap mode).  Used with a prefix
argument. will justify the paragraph as well.
.RE
.I Esc n
.RS
narrow paragraph
(wrap mode).  Used with a prefix
argument will justify the paragraph as well.
.RE
.I Esc ;
.RS
Make Language comment (Fortran
and C)
.RE
.I Esc \\\\
.RS
Trim whitespace around point
.RE
.I Esc !
.RS
Execute shell command
.RE
.I Esc $
.RS
Ispell word 
.RE
.I Ctrl-X ?
.RS
Show line/column information.
.RE
.I `
.RS
quoted_insert --- insert
next char as is (backquote key)
.RE
.I Esc s
.RS
Center line.
.RE
.I Esc u
.RS
Upcase word.
.RE
.I Esc d
.RS
Downcase word.
.RE
.I Esc c
.RS
Capitalize word.
.RE
.I Esc x
.RS
Get M-x minibuffer prompt with command
completion
.RE
.I Ctrl-X Ctrl-B
.RS
pop up a list of buffers
.RE
.I Ctrl-X Ctrl-C
.RS
exit JED
.RE
.I Ctrl-X 0
.RS
Delete
Current Window
.RE
.I Ctrl-X 1
.RS
One Window.
.RE
.I Ctrl-X 2
.RS
Split Window.
.RE
.RS
.I Ctrl-X o
.RE
.RS
Other window.
.RE
.I Ctrl-X b
.RS
switch to buffer
.RE
.I Ctrl-X k
.RS
kill buffer
.RE
.I Ctrl-X s
.RS
save some buffers
.RE
.I Ctrl-X Esc
.RS
Get "S\-Lang>" prompt for interface to the S\-Lang
interpreter.
.RE
.I Esc .
.RS
Find tag
.RE
.I Ctrl-@
.RS
Set Mark (Begin defining a region).  Used with a
prefix argument aborts the act
of defining the region and
pops the Mark.
.RE
.RE
.\"---------------------------------------------------------
.SH FILES
.I JED_ROOT/lib/*.sl
.RS
these are the default runtime jed slang files
.RE
.I JED_ROOT/lib/site.sl
.RS
This is the default startup file.
.RE
.I /etc/jed.rc
.RS
The system wide configuration file.
.RE
.I ~/.jedrc
.RS
Per user configuration file.
.SH AUTHOR
.I "John E. Davis" <davis@space.mit.edu>
.RS
Jed's Author
.RE


--- This document was
.I translated
to nroff
by "Boris D. Beletsky" <borik@isracom.co.il>
